There is a study about effects of the consumption of chocolate (dark versus white chocolate) on cyclists during cycling.
Our parameter of interest is the all-out bicycle sprint performance (meters). The results we got from the study after conducting it on 9 male participants was measured in 2 trails, 
one after consumption of dark chocolate for a week and one after consumption of white chocolate for a week. So, we have a population paired data.
We need answer these questions:
1. Did the total distance covered after consumption of white chocolate increase as compared to baseline, on average? If so, by how much? And was the increase statistically significant? Use the corresponding averages in the table as well as the reported p-value of 0.319 to explain your answer.
2. Did the total distance covered after consumption of dark chocolate increase as compared to baseline, on average? If so, by how much? And was the increase statistically significant? Use the corresponding averages in the table as well as the reported p-value of 0.001 to explain your answer.
3. Based on these results, in terms of increasing total distance covered, what is your recommendation (for or against) regarding the inclusion of chocolate in the athletes’ diet? And if for inclusion, which type of chocolate? Use your answers to questions 1 and 2,
as well as the provided 95% confidence interval for comparing dark chocolate to white chocolate to explain your answer.
We will first set our hypotheses:
Null Hypothesis: The consumption of dark chocolate and white chocolate have no effect on the cyclists and they travel equal distances. => H0 = dark chocolate - white chocolate = 0
Alternate Hypothesis: There is significant difference between the consumption of dark and white chocolates, => Ha = dark chocolate - white chocolate <> 0
From the given details, the p-value for the all-out sprint performance total distance traveled on consumption of the white chocolate over the baseline is 0.319, we conclude that, there is a no significant difference in the performance of the athletes on consumption of the white chocolate.
And we fail to reject Null Hypothesis
As the 95% Confidence Interval for the population average change in total distance covered (dark chocolate over baseline) is 165 m to 314 m; (p-value 0.001), As the p-value is less than significant level of 0.05 for 95% confidence interval, we can conclude that there is a significant difference in the all-out performance of the athletes on consumption of the dark chocolate over baseline (with no chocolate consumption) Considering the null hypothesis as there is no difference in the all-out performance of the athletes by consuming either dark or white chocolate, and alternative hypothesis as there is a difference in all-out performance of the athlete because of dark chocolate over white chocolate consumption. From the given 95% confidence interval (significance level = 0.05), we can conclude that, consumption of dark chocolate was having significant positive difference in all-out performance of the athletes, as the p-value is 0.003 for 95% confidence Interval for the population average change in total distance covered (dark chocolate over white chocolate) is 82 m to 292 m.
From the provided details, we can conclude that the dark chocolate included in the athletes diet is having a significant effect on the all-out performance measured by total distance traveled in 2 minutes over baseline as well as over white chocolate.
